@def title = "Grade 7/8 Olympic Math, 2019–2020"
@def hasmath = true
@def hascode = true

# Class Website

This is the class website for the Grand River Chinese School interest class on Grade 7/8
Olympic Math, taught by [Fengyang Wang](https://wafy.me/). The teaching assistant for this
class is [Eric Xiao](https://mathlord2.github.io/).

## Lecture 12 (January 25, 2019)

(Class originally scheduled for January 18, but was cancelled due to inclement weather.)

We discussed vector spaces and solutions to homogeneous linear equations in general
(including in more than two variables). We also discussed how to solve inhomogeneous linear
equations. The [homework and answers](pub/homework/vector-spaces.html) are available
(solutions are hidden if you print).

## Lecture 11 (January 11, 2019)

This lecture was taught by Eric Xiao. We discussed vectors, in particular their sums and
scalar multiplication, and learned how to solve homogeneous linear equations in two
variables. The [homework](assets/homework/vectors.pdf) and
[answers](assets/solutions/vectors.pdf) are available.

## Lecture 9 (December 7, 2019) and Lecture 10 (December 14, 2019)

We discussed polynomials of degrees higher than 2, and propose various tools like long
division, the remainder theorem, and the rational root theorem to help us factor (and hence
solve) these polynomials. Lectures were taught by Eric Xiao and Zed Li.

The [homework](assets/homework/polynomials.pdf) and
[answers](assets/solutions/polynomials.pdf) are available.

## Lecture 8 (November 23, 2019)

This lecture was taught by Eric Xiao. We discussed the vertex form of quadratic equations,
and used this to derive the quadratic formula.

The [homework](assets/homework/quadratic-formula.pdf) and
[answers](assets/solutions/quadratic-formula.pdf) are available.

## Lecture 7 (November 17, 2019)

We reviewed linear equations, talked about a graphical method of solving them, and then
introduced quadratic polynomials and their associated equations. We talked about standard
form and factored form and the trial and error method of converting from standard form to
factored form.

The [homework](assets/homework/quadratic-equations.pdf) and
[answers](assets/solutions/quadratic-equations.pdf) are available.

## Lecture 5 (November 2, 2019) and Lecture 6 (November 9, 2019)

On November 2, we discussed some basics of sets, including their definition, membership,
equality, and subset relationships.

On November 9, we continued the discussion by introducing Venn diagrams, set union, and set
intersection.

For both weeks, the [lesson notes](pub/sets.html), [homework](assets/homework/sets.pdf) and
[answers](assets/solutions/sets.pdf) are available.

## Lecture 4 (October 26, 2019)

We discssed square roots of integers that are not perfect squares, like $3$. We found that
they do not exist as rational numbers. We made a graph showing the relationship between
rational numbers and their squares, and noted that if we could draw a continuous curve, then
there should exist a square root of $3$. We define the “real numbers” to represent this
concept of a continuum.

The [homework](assets/homework/real-numbers.pdf) and
[answers](assets/solutions/real-numbers.pdf) are available.

## Lecture 3 (October 19, 2019)

This lecture was taught by Eric Xiao. We discussed some exponent rules and introduced
polynomial equations.

The [homework](assets/homework/exponents.pdf) and [answers](assets/solutions/exponents.pdf)
are available.

## Lecture 2 (October 5, 2019)

We discussed some of the problems from last week’s homework. We then gave many examples of
word problems with a single variable. We noticed the similarities between these problems,
and discussed a solution to linear equations with one variable in general.

The [homework](assets/homework/linear-systems.pdf) and
[answers](assets/solutions/linear-systems.pdf) are available.

## Lecture 1 (September 28, 2019)

We reviewed the integers (including negative numbers) and introduced variables. We then
covered fractions using this new vocabulary and reviewed various operations on them.

The [homework](assets/homework/rational-numbers.pdf) and
[answers](assets/solutions/rational-numbers.pdf) are available.

If you would like more practice with fraction arithmetic, check out [Khan
Academy](https://www.khanacademy.org/math/arithmetic/fraction-arithmetic). Don’t worry if
the variables don’t make sense yet — we will continue to practice them in future lectures.

## Contact

Feel free to [email me](mailto:fengyangwang0@gmail.com) with any questions about the course.
